Add architecture documentation (#1338)
inrupt/solid-client-authn-js: ARCHITECTURE.md

The four modules are available in the [packages directory](./packages).

## OAuth2.0/OpenID Connect

This library aims at helping developers authenticating users to their applications using the [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) protocol (often abbreviated OIDC). OIDC is a protocol based on the [OAuth2.0](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749) framework. In order to understand the library, some understanding of OAuth/OIDC is preferable.

### Helpful resources

Here is a list of things that helped this library's developers get a better understanding of OAuth/OIDC: 
- [OAuth 2 in Action](https://www.manning.com/books/oauth-2-in-action), by Justin Richer and Antonio Sanso
- [OAuth masterclass](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egfyV2NV9Mw), by Justin richer
- [How To Securely Implement Authentication in Single Page Applications](https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-securely-implement-authentication-in-single-page-applications-670534da746f), by Dennis Stötzel

### Solid-OIDC

> Solid extends the OIDC protocol in order to make it fit into a decentralized ecosystem. The [Solid-OIDC specification](https://solid.github.io/authentication-panel/solid-oidc/) is the reference document to learn about this extension.

Author: 3775f329b5e58f2eef502e41b5fe872233c7033e

### A short glossary

Here is a list of terms having a specific meaning in the context of OIDC:

> - **Resource Server**: The server hosting private resources. In our case, a Solid server. A Resource Server receives requests authenticated with an Access Token

Author: I implemented part of this change in ce3d056ab989aeff0b592f0ad12f3f558f831b9f, but I'm not sure about the first proposed sentence. Technically, the notion of Pod is quite vague, and it is currently not part of the spec (as far as I know). It is introduced via the notion of Pod Root and Pod Owner, but one Resource Server will serve many Pods, and most Pods will contain resources that may be accessed by users that are not the Pod Owner. Therefore, I'm afraid that associating the notion of a Resource Server with a WebID is a bit restrictive, even for the sake of explanation.

> - **Resource Server**: The server hosting private resources. In our case, a Solid server. A Resource Server receives requests authenticated with an Access Token

Reviewer: That's fair enough :+1:

### The Handler pattern

Important components of this library are based on the Handler design pattern: given data contained in a request, a set of classes implementing a similar API will declare whether or not they may handle said request. Handlers declare two functions: `canHandle(request)` and `handle(request)`. `canHandle` simply returns a boolean indicating the ability of the handler to handle the request, and `handle` actually processes it. All of the handlers for a given type of requests are tracked by a handler aggregator, which will have the first handle for which `canHandle` returns `true` process the request. The handler aggregator has the same API as the handlers it aggregates, and brokers the request to the underlying handlers. More on that in the Dependency Injection section.

> In the context of this library, a request is an API to execute some OIDC-related operation. Handlers will determine whether they can handle the request based on the options specified by the user when making the call.

Author: That's because it was meant to say "a request is an API call" :p

> In the context of this library, a request is an API to execute some OIDC-related operation. Handlers will determine whether they can handle the request based on the options specified by the user when making the call.

Reviewer: Ah well, that _is_ a lot clearer :P

#### Login

> Logging in is the operation that goes from the Client to the Issuer. It may result in a redirection of the user to the Issuer, but that is not always the case (in the `-node` module in particular). Handlers for the login operation are located in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/oidcHandlers/*Handler.ts`.

Reviewer: "goes from" is a bit unclear to me here. Does this mean "the Client has to get the Resource Owner to visit a webpage of the Issuer, e.g. via redirection (in a browser-based app) or by having them click a link or scan a QR code)"?

#### Incoming redirect

> OIDC is based on redirection of the user's browser between the Client and the Issuer. The incoming redirect happens after the Resource Owner has authenticated to the Issuer, and the Issuer redirects them to the Client's `redirect_uri` with some relevant information in the query params. Handlers for the incoming redirect are located in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/redirectHandler/*Handler.ts`.

Reviewer: I'm going to suggest a rewording here that keeps the events in chronological order. I hope that what I'm saying is correct :crossed_fingers: :

```suggestion
At the Issuer webpage, the Resource Owner authenticates (e.g. by entering a username and a password), after which the Issuer sends them to a webpage under the Client app's control (its `redirect_uri`), to which it appends some query parameters that it can use to complete the login flow. This is done when the developer calls `handleIncomingRedirect`, and the Handlers for the incoming redirect are located in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/redirectHandler/*Handler.ts`.
```

### Dependency injection

An important architectural component of this library is dependency injection, implemented here using [TSyringe](https://github.com/Microsoft/tsyringe). Dependencies are declared in `packages/*/src/dependencies.ts`.

#### Declaring order

Something important to realize is that the order in which the dependencies are declared (for a given container) matters. Let's have a look at some code to make things clearer.

```
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandler", {
  useClass: AggregateOidcHandler,
});
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandlers", {
  useClass: RefreshTokenOidcHandler,
});
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandlers", {
  useClass: AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler,
});
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandlers", {
  useClass: ClientCredentialsOidcHandler,
});
```

> Here, `AggregateOidcHandler` is the handler aggregator (as defined in the Handler Pattern section), and `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`, `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler` and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` are its underlying handlers. When receiving a request, `AggregateOidcHandler` will first call to its instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler` to check if it can handle it. If so, the instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler` will handle the request, and the instances of `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler` or `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` will not be called. This means that it is important to declare the dependencies from the most specialized to the most generic, because if a fallback handler that can handle all requests is declared first, the other more specialized handlers will not be called.

Reviewer: Wait, if the order in which the Handlers are added to `container` determines which gets called, then why does `AggregateOidcHandler` need to get called first which I'd _also_ assume to have a list of Handlers to determine which gets called? (In other words, what does `AggregateOidcHandler` do here that `container` doesn't?)

Author: Note that the label for the containers of the aggregator and the underlying handlers differ (respectively `browser:oidcHandler` and `browser:oidcHandlers`, with an 's'). In this case, the order in which the dependencies are declared is irrelevant, because they do not relate to the same container. The Aggregator implements the class from `packages/core/src/util/handlerPattern/AggregateHandler.ts`, and uses the `@injectAll` annotation to receive all the handlers registered to a given container. If this comment clarifies things, I'll add it to the documentation.

Reviewer: Aha! Yes, that's definitely worth pointing out - at least the `s` part.

Author: 4a9e1d4bc4eb45508cf141ac1ac1318ee824fba8

#### Mocks and tests

Dependency injection makes the codebase more flexible, because it is only at runtime that each component will be presented with the dependencies it declared, which means it is easier to add a dependency to a component without changing the whole codebase.

However, mocking dependency injection in test code wouldn't bring any value. Instead, the object we want to test can be constructed with mocked dependencies provided to its constructor. For instance, a class such as

```
@injectable()
export default class RefreshTokenOidcHandler implements IOidcHandler {
  constructor(
    @inject("node:tokenRefresher") private tokenRefresher: ITokenRefresher,
    @inject("node:storageUtility") private storageUtility: IStorageUtility
  ) {}
  // ...
```

can be tested as follows: 
```
const refreshTokenOidcHandler = new RefreshTokenOidcHandler(
  someMockedTokenRefresher,
  someMockedStorageUtility
);
```

## Mapping OIDC flows to the code

> 

Reviewer: This is very useful - what might make it even more so is to add in which use cases which flow is used?

Author: That's certainly a possibility, however I'd like to have a discussion first: wouldn't that get rather deep into explaining OIDC/OAuth, which is information available in greater details elsewhere, and stray away from presenting how the codebase relates to OIDC/OAuth ?

Reviewer: Hmm, I was thinking of a single comment relating it to Solid (e.g. "this is used by Solid apps running in the browser to login" and "this is used by Solid apps that run on the server or natively to maintain a session"), but perhaps I'm misunderstanding how specific to certain use cases these flows are and I should just read up on OIDC again :P

Author: Well it's more that I'm afraid I would give a truncated view of which flows may be used in which cases, while really I don't expect things to be Solid-specific here, but to hold in any OIDC context. However, if you think it may be useful, I could details which flows are explicitly NOT supported, e.g. the refresh flow in the browser, or explain why using the client credential flow is not something that works well with Solid.

Author: Actually I'll do that, because figuring out what things are absent is always trickier than finding the things that are there

Reviewer: Yeah absolutely, sounds like a good idea.

Author: 78e9ddd6ab6e555a1f559a7807465b4dd7e12cb1

### Auth code flow

![Module dependencies](./documentation/diagrams/auth_code_flow.svg)

- Discovery: `packages/*/src/login/oidc/IssuerConfigFetcher.ts`
- Registration: `packages/*/src/login/oidc/ClientRegistrar.ts`
- OIDC handler: `packages/*/src/login/oidc/oidcHandlers/AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler.ts`

> - Handle incoming redirect: `packages/*/src/login/oidc/redirectHandler/*Handler.ts`

Reviewer: Might be good to mention here why you can't list the specific Handler here. (Because I don't know :P)

Author: 7b69d5233e25714ca2f18500cf2cdded6f198ea2 is a bit more specific about the handlers that may get called, but really it depends on their `canHandle` conditions. Typically, the list will grow if we implement error handling as I suggest in the dedicated ticket, by adding a dedicated handler that `canHandle` incoming redirects where the redirect IRI contains an `error` query param.

Reviewer: Ah, that sounds like a good approach to error handling. How about just mentioning something like "the specific Handler depends on which Handler's `canHandle()` method first returns `true`"?

Author: 78e9ddd6ab6e555a1f559a7807465b4dd7e12cb1

### Refresh flow

![Module dependencies](./documentation/diagrams/refresh_flow.svg)

- OIDC handler: `packages/*/src/login/oidc/oidcHandlers/RefreshTokenOidcHandler.ts`

> Note that in this case, no redirection happens: the Access Token is received directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this case, no redirection happens (i.e. there's only a Back channel): the Access Token is received directly
```

# Solid-client-authn-* architecture

> This document summerizes the architecture of the `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-*`

Author: Feels less like summer though

# Solid-client-authn-* architecture

This document summerizes the architecture of the `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-*`
modules. It applies to both `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-node` and `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-browser`, 
which are based on similar architectural patterns.

## Module map

https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-authn-js is a lerna-based monorepo, which
means this single git repository actually hosts several NPM modules which are
related to each other. The following diagram shows an overview of the modules and their relations.

![Module dependencies](./documentation/diagrams/module_map.svg)

The two modules grouped under the "Client libraries" label are the
modules we expect our customers to import. As their names imply, each  of these 
modules is specific to a given environment (NodeJS or the browser). However, they
both have a very similar API and architecture, and mostly differ by their main

> dependency, namely the third-party library implementing the

Author: Does c202c32ba5a68b3daeb7169ad730836e4f2df9a3 flow better ?

[OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) protocol.
`@inrupt/solid-client-authn-node` depends on [`openid-client`](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client/).
`@inrupt/solid-client-authn-browser` depends on [`oidc-client`](https://github.com/IdentityModel/oidc-client-js),
but it does not implement all the features we needed, namely support for
[DPoP tokens](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-01) and 
[Dynamic Client Registration](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html),
which are implemented in `@inrupt/oidc-client-ext`.

The four modules are available in the [packages directory](./packages).

## OAuth2.0/OpenID Connect

This library aims at helping developers authenticating users to their applications
using the [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html)
protocol (often abbreviated OIDC). OIDC is a protocol based on the
[OAuth2.0](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749) framework. In order to understand

> how the library internally works, some understanding of OAuth/OIDC is preferable.

Author: It feels a little bit like removing the section and moving the subsections as preface to the following section would kind of bloat the next section, while keeping a pretty similar logical structure... However, what do you think about moving the section `Mapping OIDC flows to the code` up, and merging it with `0Auth2.0/OpenID Connect` ?

> how the library internally works, some understanding of OAuth/OIDC is preferable.

Reviewer 2: Oh ... I think that would be really great.

> how the library internally works, some understanding of OAuth/OIDC is preferable.

Author: Done in 3da9f3dfd00e33393dafa1688b9dfe4d1cf6e839

### Helpful resources

Here is a list of things that helped this library's developers get a better
understanding of OAuth/OIDC: 

> - [OAuth 2 in Action](https://www.manning.com/books/oauth-2-in-action), by Justin Richer and Antonio Sanso

Reviewer 2: That works.  Definitely am against duplicating (and if the diagrams of the auth code flow moves on up to this section, then, the diagrams can act as a nice precursor to "hey, here are some resources that may help").

> - [OAuth 2 in Action](https://www.manning.com/books/oauth-2-in-action), by Justin Richer and Antonio Sanso

Author: Done in 3da9f3dfd00e33393dafa1688b9dfe4d1cf6e839

identifiers through either static or dynamic client registration. Solid-OIDC also
makes mandatory the support for [Key-bound Access Tokens](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-fett-oauth-dpop-04)
(referred to as DPoP tokens), which is only optional in traditional OIDC, where
Bearer tokens are the default option. DPoP tokens cannot be replayed by a Resource
Server to another Resource Server, which is an important security feature in a
decentralized ecosystem such as Solid's.

### A short glossary

Here is a list of terms having a specific meaning in the context of OIDC:
- **Resource Server**: The server hosting private resources. In our case, a Solid
server. A Resource Server receives requests authenticated with an Access Token.
Example: https://pod.inrupt.com. 
- **Resource Owner**: the user, who owns some private resources 
- **OIDC issuer**: the Solid Identity Provider, which issues Access Tokens, ID
tokens, and Refresh Tokens. These tokens tell the Resource Server that the user
has control over a certain identity (WebID), which can then use that information
to decide whether to give or deny access. Example: https://broker.pod.inrupt.com.

> - **Client**: the application the Resource Owner uses to access its resources on

Author: The notion of Resource Owner in the OIDC sense is broader than the notion of Pod Owner in Solid: anyone with a WebID is a Resource Owner, in the authentication sense. Whether a particular Resource Owner is authorized to access a particular Resource is a different matter, up to the authozization system, so ACP or ACL, which is outside of the scope of this document. Do you think that's a helpful precision to add ?

> - **Client**: the application the Resource Owner uses to access its resources on

Reviewer 2: Yes please.  Because the Resource Owner definition follows that of the Resource Server - which ends with example https://pod.inrupt.com, it because easier to make the mental jump to equate Resource Owner to Pod Owner.  So, explicitly stating that it's anyone with a WebID clarification would definitely help.

the handlers it aggregates, and brokers the request to the underlying handlers.
More on that in the Dependency Injection section.

In the context of this library, a request is an API call to execute some OIDC-related
operation, for instance redirect the Resource Owner to the OIDC issuer, or process
the data sent by the OIDC issuer to the Client. Handlers will determine whether 
they can handle the request based on the options specified by the code snippet making
the call.

#### Login

Logging in is an operation initiated by the Client. It may result in one of the following:
- a redirection of the Resource Owner to the Issuer's authorization endpoint
- a request by the Client to the Issuer's token endpoint
Handlers for the login operation are located in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/oidcHandlers/*Handler.ts`.

#### Incoming redirect

The incoming redirect is an operation initiated by the Issuer.
At the Issuer webpage, the Resource Owner authenticates (e.g. by entering a username
and a password), after which the Issuer sends them to a webpage under the Client
app's control (its `redirect_uri`), to which it appends some query parameters that

> it can use to complete the login flow. This is done when the developer calls 

Reviewer 2: the two "it" instances are a bit ambiguous.

});
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandlers", {
  useClass: ClientCredentialsOidcHandler,
});
```

Here, `AggregateOidcHandler` is the handler aggregator (as defined in the Handler
Pattern section), and `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`, `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` are its underlying handlers. When receiving a
request, `AggregateOidcHandler` will first call to its instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
to check if it can handle it. If so, the instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
will handle the request, and the instances of `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
or `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` will not be called. This means that it is
important to declare the dependencies from the most specialized to the most generic,
because if a fallback handler that can handle all requests is declared first,
the other more specialized handlers will not be called.

Note that the label for the containers of the aggregator and the underlying handlers
differ (respectively `browser:oidcHandler` and `browser:oidcHandlers`, with an 's',
in the above example). In this case, the order in which the dependencies are

> declared is irrelevant, because they do not relate to the same container. The

Reviewer 2: For my own education -  What does "they do not relate to the same container" mean?  I see the same container registering the handlers.

Author: It's a concept really specific to TSyringe, so you don't need to worry too much about it :). What I'm trying to mean is that the order in which the `container` object registers dependencies isn't relevant  in the case they are registered with different labels. Maybe that's actually the way this should be phrased :D

Aggregator implements the class from `packages/core/src/util/handlerPattern/AggregateHandler.ts`,
and uses the `@injectAll` annotation to receive all the handlers registered to a
given container.

#### Mocks and tests

Dependency injection makes the codebase more flexible, because it is only at
runtime that each component will be presented with the dependencies it declared,
which means it is easier to add a dependency to a component without changing the

> whole codebase.

Reviewer 2: Maybe break into 2 sentences, something like:

> Dependency injection makes the codebase more flexible. Because each component is presented with its declared dependencies at runtime, it becomes easier to add a dependency to a component without changing the whole codebase.

> However, mocking dependency injection in test code wouldn't bring any value.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just tweak to:

> However, for testing a component, mocking dependency injection in test code ...
> Instead, to test the object, construct the object ...

Instead, the object we want to test can be constructed with mocked dependencies
provided to its constructor. For instance, a class such as

```
@injectable()
export default class RefreshTokenOidcHandler implements IOidcHandler {
  constructor(
    @inject("node:tokenRefresher") private tokenRefresher: ITokenRefresher,
    @inject("node:storageUtility") private storageUtility: IStorageUtility
  ) {}
  // ...
```

can be tested as follows: 
```
const refreshTokenOidcHandler = new RefreshTokenOidcHandler(
  someMockedTokenRefresher,
  someMockedStorageUtility
);
```

## Mapping OIDC flows to the code

### Unsupported flows

There are some OIDC flows that we intentionally don't plan on supporting:
- The [Implicit flow](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ImplicitFlowAuth),
which is widely recognized as having security issues, and doesn't bring value compared
to the Auth Code flow.

> - The Refresh flow **in a browser context**. We do implement the efresh flow for

Reviewer 2: efresh -> Refresh

NodeJS, but there are limitations that prevent it from being applicable in a
browser context:
  - Users must always be prompted when a refresh token is requested, which prevents
  silent authentication.
  - There is no secure place where the Refresh Token may be stored in the browser
  across page reload,  which means the token would be lost on reload, which defeats
  the purpose of having a long-lived token anyway. The 
  [best security practices document for OAuth](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics-18#section-4.13)

>   contains some recommandations on handling Refresh Tokens securely.

Reviewer 2: recommendations

## Module map

https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-authn-js is a Lerna-based monorepo, which
means this single Git repository actually hosts several npm modules that are
related to each other. The following diagram shows an overview of the modules and their 
relationships.

![Module dependencies](./documentation/diagrams/module_map.svg)

`@inrupt/solid-client-authn-node` and `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-browser` (grouped under the
"Client libraries" label) are the modules we expect developers to import.
As their names imply, each  of these modules is specific to a given environment 
(NodeJS or the browser). However, they both have very similar APIs and architecture,
and mostly differ by their main dependency, namely the third-party library implementing the
[OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) protocol.

- `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-node` depends on [`openid-client`](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client/).
- `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-browser` depends on `@inrupt/oidc-client-ext`. 
`@inrupt/oidc-client-ext` in turn depends on
[`oidc-client`](https://github.com/IdentityModel/oidc-client-js),

> extending it with features we need that it does yet implement, namely support for

Reviewer 2: it does yet implement -> it does not yet implement  ?

Although, I wonder if we can just shorten to 

extending it with support for DPoP tokens and Dynamic Client Registration

[DPoP tokens](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-01) and 
[Dynamic Client Registration](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html).

The four modules are available in the standard Lerna [packages directory](./packages).

## OAuth2.0/OpenID Connect

> The client libraries aim to help developers authenticating the users of their applications

Reviewer 2: maybe (?) help developers authenticate their application users via the OpenID Connect .. ?

via the [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html)
protocol (often abbreviated OIDC). OIDC is an industry-wide standard protocol based on the
[OAuth2.0](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749) framework. In order to understand
how our libraries work internally, some understanding of OAuth/OIDC is definitely preferable.

### A short glossary

Here is a list of terms having a specific meaning in the context of OIDC:
- **Resource Owner**: the user, who owns resources, some of which are private.
The notion of Resource Owner in the OIDC sense is broader than the notion of Pod Owner

> in Solid: anyone with a WebID is a Resource Owner, in the authentication sense.

Reviewer 2: Probably don't need ", in the authentication sense"  since we stated "in the OIDC sense" earlier in the sentence.

Whether a particular Resource Owner is **_authorized_** to access a particular Resource
is a different matter, up to the Solid authorization system (e.g., ACP or ACL), which is
outside the scope of this document.
- **Resource Server**: the server hosting resources owned by the Resource Owner.
In our case, a Solid server. A Resource Server receives requests authenticated
with an Access Token. Example: https://pod.inrupt.com. 
- **OIDC issuer**: the Solid Identity Provider, which issues Access Tokens, ID
tokens, and Refresh Tokens. These tokens tell the Resource Server that the user

> has control over a certain identity (WebID), which can then use that information

Reviewer 2: which can then use ->  which the Server can then use ... (?)

to decide whether to give or deny access. Example: https://broker.pod.inrupt.com.
- **Client**: the application the Resource Owner uses to access resources on
a Resource Server. Those resources may be owned directly by the Resource Owner
(i.e., resources in a Pod created by the resource owner), or on a Resource Server
hosting someone else's resources, but to which this client application and user

> have been explicitly granted access).

Reviewer 2: extraneous ")"

 Technically, OAuth is a delegation protocol: the Resource Owner allows the
Client to interact with a Resource Server on its behalf. Example: 
https://podbrowser.inrupt.com.

### Solid-OIDC

With the [Solid-OIDC specification](https://solid.github.io/authentication-panel/solid-oidc/), 
Solid extends the OIDC protocol in order to allow it fit better into a decentralized ecosystem,
specifically with Client WebIDs and DPoP tokens:

- Solid-OIDC introduces the notion of Client WebID, which enables
Client-managed identifiers instead of Issuer-managed identifiers. By using identifiers
they control, Clients are no longer required to get their identifiers from the Issuer
through either static or dynamic client registration.

- Solid-OIDC also makes the support for [Key-bound Access Tokens](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-fett-oauth-dpop-04)
(referred to as DPoP tokens) mandatory: it is only optional in traditional OIDC, where
Bearer tokens are the default option. DPoP tokens cannot be replayed by a Resource
Server to another Resource Server, which is an important security feature in a
decentralized ecosystem such as Solid's.

### Mapping OIDC flows to the code

> #### Unsupported flows

Reviewer 2: Should this section follow the auth code flow and the refresh code flow? so that we hit the supported flows first?

use cases for each flow.

## Codemap of the client library modules

This section will give a high-level description of the shared inner workings of 
`@inrupt/solid-client-authn-node` and `@inrupt/solid-client-authn-browser`,
omitting anything too module-specific.

### The API

Most of the code for these modules is internal and hidden from the developer. The
public API is located in `packages/*/src/Session.ts`. Developers are expected to
instantiate a `Session` object, and to use it to interact with the session.
Usage examples can be found in our
[public documentation](https://docs.inrupt.com/developer-tools/javascript/client-libraries/tutorial/authenticate/).

### The Handler pattern

Various components, such as the Login and Incoming Redirect components, are based
on the Handler design pattern. Given data contained in a request, a set of classes
implementing a similar API will declare whether or not they may handle said request.

- **Handlers** declare two functions:
  - `canHandle(request)`
  - `handle(request)`
  
  `canHandle()` simply returns a boolean indicating the ability of the handler to handle the 

>   request, and `handle()` actually processes it.

Reviewer 2: I would maybe shoehorn these in with the bullet points above

- `canHandle(request)`, which returns a boolean indicating the handler's ability to handle the request
- `handle(request)`, which actually processes the request

> - All the handlers for a given type of request are tracked by a **Handler Aggregator**, 

Reviewer 2: Maybe flip the sentence to start with Handler Aggregator

- **Handler Aggregator** tracks all the handlers for a given type of request. The handler aggregator invokes the first handler for which ...

- a redirection of the Resource Owner to the Issuer's authorization endpoint.
- a request by the Client to the Issuer's token endpoint.

Handlers for the login operation are located in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/oidcHandlers/*Handler.ts`.

#### Incoming redirect

The incoming redirect operation is initiated by the Issuer.
At the Issuer webpage, the Resource Owner authenticates (e.g., by entering a username
and a password), after which the Issuer sends them to a webpage under the Client
app's control (specifically its `redirect_uri`). The Issuer appends some very important query 
parameters to the IRI the Resource Owner is redirected to, which are needed by the Client
to complete the login flow. This is done when the developer calls `handleIncomingRedirect()`,
and the Handlers for the incoming redirect are located
in `packages/*/src/login/oidc/redirectHandler/*Handler.ts`.

### Dependency injection

An important architectural component of this library is dependency injection,
implemented here using [TSyringe](https://github.com/Microsoft/tsyringe). Dependencies
are declared in `packages/*/src/dependencies.ts`.

#### Declaring order

> The order in which the dependencies are declared (for a given container) **matters**.

Reviewer 2: **matters** when the dependencies have the same label (?)

  useClass: AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler,
});
container.register<IOidcHandler>("browser:oidcHandlers", {
  useClass: ClientCredentialsOidcHandler,
});
```

Here, `AggregateOidcHandler` is the handler aggregator (as defined in the Handler
Pattern section), and `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`, `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` are its underlying handlers. When receiving a
request, `AggregateOidcHandler` will first invoke its instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
to check if it can handle it. If so, that instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
will handle the request, and the instances of `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` will not be called. This means that it is
important to declare the dependencies from the most specialized to the most generic,
because if a fallback handler that can handle all requests is declared first,
the other more specialized handlers will never be called.

Note that the label for the containers of the aggregator and the underlying handlers
differ in the example above:
- `browser:oidcHandler` (without an 's') for the aggregator.

> - `browser:oidcHandlers` (with an 's'), for the aggregated handlers.

Reviewer 2: I would probably move this up a little?  

Here, `AggregateOidcHandler` is the handler aggregator (as defined in the Handler
Pattern section), and `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`, `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` are its underlying handlers. 

Note that the label for the aggregator containers differ from that for the underlying handlers (or something like that):
- `browser:oidcHandler` (without an 's') for the aggregator
- `browser:oidcHandlers` (with an 's') for the aggregated handlers.

When receiving a
request, `AggregateOidcHandler` will first invoke its instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
to check if it can handle it. If so, that instance of `RefreshTokenOidcHandler`
will handle the request, and the instances of `AuthorizationCodeWithPkceOidcHandler`
and `ClientCredentialsOidcHandler` will not be called. This means that it is
important to declare the dependencies from the most specialized to the most generic,
because if a fallback handler that can handle all requests is declared first,
the other more specialized handlers will never be called.

// then we can just flow into the sections when the order isn't relevant
